#summary Loose ideas about Spring.

 * Spring TestContext Framework
  * The Spring TestContext Framework (located in the org.springframework.test.context package) provides generic, annotation-driven unit and integration testing support that is agnostic of the testing framework in use, whether JUnit 3.8.2, JUnit 4.5+, TestNG 5.10, and so on.
  * TestContext framework also places a great deal of importance on convention over configuration with reasonable defaults that can be overridden through annotation-based configuration.
 * Bunch 'o Annotations
  * @Autowired
  * @Qualifier
  * @Resource (javax.annotation) if JSR-250 is present
  * @Inject (javax.inject) if JSR-330 is present
  * @Named (javax.inject) if JSR-330 is present
  * @Provider (javax.inject) if JSR-330 is present
  * @PersistenceContext (javax.persistence) if JPA is present
  * @PersistenceUnit (javax.persistence) if JPA is present
  * @Required
  * @Transactional

 * Spring testing annotations:
  * @ContextConfiguration
  * @DirtiesContext
  * @TestExecutionListeners
  * @TransactionConfiguration
  * @Rollback
  * @BeforeTransaction
  * @AfterTransaction
  * @IfProfileValue (junit-related)
  * @ProfileValueSourceConfiguration (junit-related)
  * @ExpectedException (junit-related)
  * @Timed (junit-related)
  * @Repeat (junit-related)
 * [http://static.springsource.org/spring/docs/3.0.x/spring-framework-reference/html/testing.html#integration-testing Spring Integration Testing]
 * [http://static.springsource.org/spring/docs/3.0.x/spring-framework-reference/html/testing.html#integration-testing Spring Integration Testing] Goals
  * Spring IoC container caching between test execution.
  * Dependency Injection of test fixture instances.
  * Transaction management appropriate to integration testing.
  * Spring-specific support classes that are useful in writing integration tests.
 * when a cyclic dependency use setter injection
 * Automatic Value Type Conversion:
  * bean definition:
{{{
<bean id="person" class="com.jgk.people.Jed">
  <property name="favoriteNumber" value="42"/>
</bean>
}}}
  * translation:
{{{
Person jed = new Jed();
Integer favoriteNumber = 42;
person.setFavoriteNumber(favoriteNumber);
}}}
 * Lists:
{{{
	<bean id="jed" class="com.jgk.springrecipes.simplecontext.beans.PersonImpl">
 		<constructor-arg name="lastName" value="Clampett"></constructor-arg>
		<constructor-arg name="firstName" value="Jed"></constructor-arg>
		<property name="favoriteNumber" value="43"></property>
		<property name="children">
		  <list>
		  	<ref bean="jethro"/>
		  	<ref bean="elliemae"/>
		  	<bean class="com.jgk.springrecipes.simplecontext.beans.PersonImpl">
				<property name="favoriteNumber" value="87"></property>
		  	</bean>
		  </list>
		</property>
	</bean>
}}}
 * Spring manages the lifecycle of beans used in an application.
 * ApplicationContext is the container.  It holds bean implementations chosen for the current deployment.  As such, it conceals the implementation details.
 * Common way to get an ApplicationContext
  * ApplicationContext ctx = new ClassPathXmlApplicationContext("application-context.xml")
 * Types of Spring Configuration Information
  * XML
  * Annotations
  * JavaConfig
  * Factory Method
 * Spring Triangle:
  * Dependency Injection (DI)
  * Aspect-Oriented Programming (AOP)
  * Enterprise Service Abstractions
 * Spring Chronology:
   * Spring 3.0 (12/09)
    * requires Java 1.5+ and JUnit 4.7+
    * REST Support, JavaConfig, SpEL, even more annotations
   * Spring 2.5 (11/07, latest 2.5.6)
    * Requires Java 1.4+, supports JUnit 4
    * Annotation DI, @MVC controllers, XML namespaces
   * Spring 2.0 (10/06, latest 2.0.8)
    * JDK 1.3+
    * XML simplification
    * Asynchronous JMS
    * JPA
    * AspectJ support
 * Spring Testability:
  * easier to test pieces of application in isolation
  * decouples objects from environment
  * Junit annotations:  @Test, @Before, @After
 * Spring Data Access
  * manages resources (connections, transactions)
  * provides API helpers (templates)
  * consistent approach to data access
  * Example:  int count = jdbcTemplate.queryForInt("SELECT COUNT( `*` ) FROM PATIENT");
   * Gets connection (from pool)
   * Uses a transaction (if required)
   * Executes the statement
   * Process the result set
   * Handles exceptions
   * Releases the connection
  * Spring supports many data access technologies, including:
   * JDBC
   * Hibernate
   * JPA
   * iBatis
 * DAO = Repository:  represent your persistence source (database, file system, etc.)
 * Dependency Injection (DI)
  * enables different collaborators to be injected for different environments. (test, production, test database, real/production database)
  * enables testing of classes independent of their collaborators.
 * Constructor Injection advantages:
  * mandatory elements
  * immutable
  * natural to Java
 * Setter Injection advantages:
  * avoid long constructor parameter lists
  * can be inherited
  * clearer/easier to understand since the properties have names
  * constructor args do not have names
 * [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=biNx-t2busI Preparation Video]
 * In Spring a rollback of a transaction occurs in response to a RuntimeException, but if a checked exception is thrown then no rollback.  You can configure so a specific checked exception causes a rollback.