#summary Question and answer

 * What do you use to programmatically create an ApplicationContext?
  * JavaConfig
 * *@Bean* annotation is JavaConfig's equivalent of what XML tag?
{{{
    <bean>
}}}
 * Are Mocks and Stubs the Same Thing?
  * No
   * Use stubs for state verification
   * A stub allows a unit test to define responses to method calls (return values, exceptions) to simulate any object on which the component being tested might depend.
   * Use mocks for behavior verification.
   * A mock allows a unit test to verify behavior. (e.g. _Did a method execute?_)
 * How do you enable component scanning?
{{{
 <context:component-scan base-package="..."/>
}}}
 * How do you tell the Spring configuration to process annotations?
  * Use the following:
{{{
<context:annotation-config/>
}}}
 * What is a special feature of the @Repository annotation not available to the @Component annotation?
  * Automatic conversion of SQLExceptions
 * Accessing Static Constants?
{{{
<bean id="myBean" class="com.jgk.beans.PresidentBean">
   <property name="dayOfWeek">
      <util:constant static-field="java.util.Calendar.MONDAY"/>
   </property>
</bean>
}}}
  * In the pre-2.0 days, you needed to use:
{{{
<bean id="myBean" class="com.jgk.beans.PresidentBean">
   <property name="dayOfWeek">
      <bean id="java.util.Calendar.MONDAY"
         class="org.springframework.beans.factory.config.FieldRetrievingFactoryBean"/>
   </property>
</bean>
}}}
 * util-namespace
  * shortens declaration of different types of collections
{{{
xmlns:util="http://www.springframework.org/schema/util"
xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/util http://www.springframework.org/schema/util/spring-util-2.0.xsd"
}}}
 * p-namespace
  * shortens property declarations
 * Differences between *id* and *name* attribute of a bean tag:
  * id requires XML syntax
  * id only holds a single value
  * name can incorporate non-standard characters
 * What is the purpose of bean definition inheritance?
  * To reuse/recycle common properties
 * 12 steps in the life of a Spring bean
  * Instantiate ApplicationContext.
  * Parse XML.
  * Bean Definitions loaded into ApplicationContext.
  * BeanFactoryPostProcessor invoked.
  * Instantiate bean.
  * Dependency injection wires bean dependencies.
  * BeanPostProcessor initializes bean.
  * BeanPostProcessor injects proxies.
  * Get bean.
  * Invoke business method on bean.
  * Close ApplicationContext.
  * Clean up bean.
 * Singletons in Spring:
  * Only one instance is created no matter how many times ctx.getBean() is called.
  * Should be stateless.
 * What is scope?
  * Specifies the lifecycle of a bean:
   * When bean is created
   * When bean is destroyed
 * ApplicationContext Destruction cycle:
  * Any unreferenced beans acquired from the ApplicationContext will be destroyed.
  * Referenced beans/proxies will continue to exist and be functional.
  * ApplicationContext itself will be destroyed.
  * Unable to request additional services from the ApplicationContext.
 * What is a proxy?
  * A surrogate
  * An object that substitutes for another object.  Exposes the same interface as the object it substitutes for.
  * Is exposed to the client in lieu of the object it substitutes for.
  * Provides services before/after the object is substitutes for. (AROUND)
 * Benefits of the Proxy Pattern?
  * Wraps services transparently around a business component.
  * NOTE: This is how AOP is implemented in Spring.
 * What are the costs of the Proxy Pattern?
  * Extra layer of processing is added to method calls.
 * Chronology of post processors:
  * BeanFactoryPostProcessor executes before bean instances have been created.
  * BeanPostProcessor executes after bean instances have been created.
 * NOTE: Information is available to a BeanPostProcessor that is not available to a BeanFactoryPostProcessor.
 * How does a BeanPostProcessors differ from its predecessor, a BeanFactoryPostProcessor?
  * BeanFactoryPostProcessor configures the factory (initializes the meta data).
  * BeanPostProcessor configures the instance (initializes data).
 * What is a callback method?
  * A method invoked on a bean by its container following key events in the life cycle of the bean.
  * Allows the bean to synchronize application logic with the infrastructure on which the bean depends.
  * A manifestation of inversion of control (IoC).
 * What is lazy instantiation?
  * Instantiation happens when the object is first used
 * What is eager instantiation?
  * Instantiation occurs upon declaration
  * Good when you KNOW the object will be used
 * Spring configuration file header:
{{{
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
		xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xmlns:context="http://www.springframework.org/schema/context"
		xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans
							http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-3.0.xsd
				              http://www.springframework.org/schema/context
				              http://www.springframework.org/schema/context/spring-context-3.0.xsd"							

</beans>
}}}
 * Common DataSource Properties:
  * url
  * user
  * password
  * dialect
 * Advantages of using annotations?
  * An alternative to XML for configuration.
  * Metadata is bundled with the class.
  * Provides syntactic separation of configuration from application logic.
 * Disadvantages/Costs of using annotations?
  * Need to recompile the source code every time an annotation is modified.
 * What are java annotations?
  * A special form of syntax used to declare metadata in a Java source file.
  * Annotations are used by frameworks as a way of conveniently applying behaviours to user-defined classes and methods that would otherwise be declared in some external source (such as an XML configuration file) or programmatically (with API calls).
 * This annotation will generate an exception at deployment time if you have not injected a necessary property:
{{{
     @Required
}}}
 * How to shorten the declaration of a PropertyPlaceholderConfigurer?
{{{
	<context:property-placeholder location="classpath:myspringproperties.properties"/>
}}}
 * Full Spring Lifecycle:
  * Allocate ApplicationContext
  * Parse XML
  * Create BeanDefinition Objects
  * Add BeanDefinitions to ApplicationContext
  * Invoke BeanFactoryPostProcessor methods
  * Instantiate Bean
  * Perform dependency injection on bean to initialize dependencies
  * Invoke BeanPostProcessor methods
  * Get bean from ApplicationContext
  * Use bean
  * When application is shutdown beans are destroyed
 * Main phases of spring application:
  * Initialization
  * Use
  * Destruction
 * JSR-250
  * Web-Page  http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=250
  * Create standard annotations to be used instead of XML configuration.
   * @Generated	Marks sources that have been generated
   * @Resource	Declares a reference to a resource, e.g. a database
   * @Resources	Container for multiple Resource annotations
   * @PostConstruct	Is used on methods that need to get executed after dependency injection is done to perform any initialization.
   * @PreDestroy	Is used on methods that are called before the instance is removed from the container
   * @RunAs	Defines the role of the application during execution in a Java EE container
   * @RolesAllowed	Specifies the security roles permitted to access method(s) in an application.
   * @PermitAll	Specifies that all security roles are permitted to access the annotated method, or all methods in the annotated class.
   * @DenyAll	Specifies that no security roles are allowed to invoke the specified method(s).
   * @DeclareRoles	Used to specify the security roles by the application.
 * For most namespaces you must provide these 3 things:
  * Namespace name   (xmlns:context="http://www.springframework.org/schema/context")
  * Namespace location (xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/context")
  * Namespace xsd file (http://www.springframework.org/schema/context/spring-context-3.0.xsd)
 * What is the purpose of using xml namespaces in bean configuration files?
  * To reduce the amount of xml configuration required to wire beans together.
 * What is PropertyPlaceholderConfigurer an example of?
  * A BeanFactoryPostProcessor
 * What is Bean Factory Post Processing?
  * Applies transformations to groups of bean definitions _before_ any objects are actually created.
  * Implemented using BeanFactoryPostProcessor
 * How do you make a bean that is simply a File?
{{{
  Answer:  use constructor-arg
	 <bean id="someFile" class="java.io.File">
	    <constructor-arg value="/tmp/passwd"/>
	 </bean>
}}}
 * How do you make a bean that is simply a String?
{{{
  Answer:  use constructor-arg
	 <bean id="someString" class="java.lang.String">
	    <constructor-arg value="Jed Clampett as some string"/>
	 </bean>
}}}
 * How do you make a bean that is simply an Integer?
{{{
  Answer:  use constructor-arg
	 <bean id="someNumber" class="java.lang.Integer">
	    <constructor-arg value="543"/>
	 </bean>
}}}
 * Example of Constructor injection:
{{{
		<bean id="person" class="PersonImpl">
			<constructor-arg value="32"/>
		</bean>
}}}  
 * What is disambiguation?
  * The process of declaring Spring properties in an unambiguous manner.
 * What Types of Conversions is Spring Capable of Out of the Box?	
  * Java primitives
  * Byte arrays
  * String arrays
  * Java wrapper classes
  * Java classes
  * String
  * java.lang.Class
  * java.net.URL
  * java.io.File
  * java.util.Locale
  * java.util.Properties
  * java.util.Collection
 * Url type conversion example:
{{{ 		
  <property name="url" value="http://www.kroubalkian.com"/>  
}}}
 * String array conversion example:
{{{
     <property name="teamNames"
				  value="Blue Dolphins,Blue Dragons,Killer Bees, Pink Bonnets"/>
}}}
 * When does Spring create and wire your components together?
  * when you instantiate the ApplicationContext (or BeanFactory)
 * What is the effect of wiring for both constructor injection and setter injection? _(silly to do this)_
  * Both injections occur in the following order:
   # constructor injection
   # setter injection
 * The name of the class representing a Spring Container.
  * ApplicationContext
 * The 3 dimensions of the Spring Triangle.
  * Dependency Injection.
  * Aspect Oriented Programming.
  * Enterprise Extensions.
 * Spring uses this to generate code to wire beans together.
  * Dependency Injection.
 * The 3 techniques for wiring component together.
  * Constructor injection.
  * Setter injection.
  * Factory method injection.
 * The XML element for constructor injection.
  * constructor-arg
 * The XML element for setter injection.
  * property
 * An XML element for factory injection.
  * factory-method
 * This distinguishes a prototype.
  * One instance per getBean invocation.
 * Used to inject a reference to a named bean.
  * ref=...
 * Used to inject a scalar value.
  * value=...
 * Use this XML attribute when a constructor has been overloaded to support parameters of different types.
  * type=...
 * Use this XML attribute when a constructor has been overloaded to support multiple parameters of the same type.
  * index=...
 * The 3 types of ApplicationContexts.
  * Classpath
  * FileSystem
  * WebApplication