#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

== General 3 questions ==
Change
=== Define Dependency Injection and Inversion of Control ===
 * _*Dependency Injection* is a process whereby objects define their dependencies, that is, the other objects they work with, only through constructor arguments, arguments to a factory method, or properties that are set on the object instance after it is constructed or returned from a factory method. The container then injects those dependencies when it creates the bean. This process is fundamentally the inverse, hence the name *Inversion of Control (IoC)*, of the bean itself controlling the instantiation or location of its dependencies by using direct construction of classes, or a mechanism such as the Service Locator pattern._
 * Dependency Injection [http://static.springsource.org/spring/docs/3.0.x/reference/beans.html HERE]
 * Inversion of Control (IoC) [http://static.springsource.org/spring/docs/3.0.x/reference/beans.html HERE]
===  List the advantages of Dependency Injection ===
 * Container manages the lifecycle of the application. (e.g. all beans are fully initialized before they are used)
 * Beans are created in the correct order based on their dependencies.
 * Each bean is bound to a unique id.  The id of the bean, by convention, reflects the service the bean provides to clients.
 * The container ({{{ApplicationContext}}}) encapsulates the bean implementations chosen for a given deployment.  In other words, the container _conceals implementation details_.

=== Be able to write XML code for constructor injection ===
{{{
<bean id="someBean" class="com.jgk.springrecipes.SomeBean">
  <constructor-arg ref="someOtherBean"/>
</bean>
<bean id="someOtherBean" class="com.jgk.springrecipes.SomeOtherBean"/>
}}}
=== Be able to write XML code for setter injection ===
{{{
	<bean id="someBeanWithProperties" class="com.jgk.springrecipes.blackbelt.general.beans.SomeBeanWithProperties">
	   <property name="someOtherBean" ref="yetAnotherBean"/>
	   <property name="someInteger" value="3"/>
	   <property name="someText" value="Hello, jgk-spring-recipes"/>
	</bean>
	<bean id="yetAnotherBean" class="com.jgk.springrecipes.blackbelt.general.beans.SomeOtherBean"/>	
}}}
=== List the (non-web) scopes for beans ===
 * singleton
 * prototype
=== Identify the default scope for beans ===
 * singleton