#summary JMX in Spring 3

= Introduction =
 * [http://static.springsource.org/spring/docs/3.0.x/spring-framework-reference/html/jmx.html Docs]
== Spring JMX ==
 * Motivation:
  * JMX API is difficult and complex
  * Goal of Spring's JMX support is to simplify the use of JMX while hiding the complexity of the API
 * Goals:
  * Configuration JMX infrastructure
   * Declaratively using:
     * context namespace or 
     * FactoryBeans
  * Exposing Spring beans as MBeans
   * Annotation based metadata
   * Declaratively using Spring bean definitions
  * Consuming JMX managed beans
   * transparently using a proxy-based mechanism
  * To locate or create and MBeanServer declaratively:
   * Use context namespace 
      {{{
           <context:mbean-server/>
      }}}
   * Or declare MBeanServer explicitly:
      {{{
           <bean id="mbeanServer"
                 class="org.springframework.jmx.support.MBeanServerFactoryBean">
              <property name="locateExistingServerIfPossible" value="true"/>
           </bean>
      }}}
  * Spring JMX Annotations ({{{org.springframework.jmx.export.annotation.*}}}):
    {{{
        @ManagedResource - class-level
        @ManagedAttribute - method-level, becomes JMX attribute
        @ManagedOperation - method-level, becomes JMX operation
        @ManagedMetric
        @ManagedNotification
        @ManagedNotifications
        @ManagedOperationParameter
        @ManagedOperationParameters
    }}}
  * How it gets done:
   * Annotate your class (@ManagedResource) and methods (@ManagedAttribute, @ManagedOperation) to be exposed
   * Activate exporter in Spring configuration:
    {{{
        <context:mbean-export/>
    }}}
   * More detail:
{{{
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
    xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xmlns:jdbc="http://www.springframework.org/schema/jdbc"
    xmlns:context="http://www.springframework.org/schema/context"
    xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans
              http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-3.0.xsd
              http://www.springframework.org/schema/jdbc
              http://www.springframework.org/schema/jdbc/spring-jdbc-3.0.xsd
              http://www.springframework.org/schema/context
              http://www.springframework.org/schema/context/spring-context-3.0.xsd">

	<context:mbean-export/>

   ...more configuration...

</beans>
}}}
   * ObjectName(s) derived from fully qualified class name or passwed as attribute to {{{@ManagedResource}}} as in:  {{{ @ManagedResource(objectName = "statistics:name=monitorFactory") }}} 
  * MBeanExporter (from Spring)
   * Transparently exposes an existing POJO bean to the MBeanServer
    * so you don't have to write all the MBean registration code
   * Out-of-the-box you do not need to create an explicit MBean management interface or create an {{{ ObjectName }}} instance.
    * Spring JMX uses reflection to manage all properties and methods
    * Spring JMX uses map key as the {{{ ObjectName }}}

== JMX Learning ==
 * JMX Architecture
  * MBeanServer acts as broker for communication between:
   * Multiple local MBean(s)
   * Remote clients and remote MBean(s)
   * Clients available ([http://download.oracle.com/javase/1.5.0/docs/guide/management/jconsole.html jconsole], jvisualvm, Hyperic)
 * MBean 
  * an object with management metadata
  * an MBean is an object with additional management metadata
   * Attributes (properties)
   * Operations (methods)
  * MBean management metadata can be defined statically with a Java interface or defined dynamically at runtime.
   * Simple MBean - statically defined MBean with a Java interface
   * Dynamic MBean - metadata defined dynamically at runtime
 * Goals of JMX - Java Management Extensions:
   * A standard, dynamic way of managing and monitoring resources such as applications, devices, and services.
   * Databases.
   * Message services.
   * WAR modules.
   * EJB modules.
   * Application components.
   * Application servers.
 * Things you can do with JMX:
  * Retrieve info about and application at runtime
  * Dynamically reconfiguration application (while it's running)
  * Trigger operations inside an application


== JMX Info ==
 * [http://java.sun.com/javase/technologies/core/mntr-mgmt/javamanagement/ JMX]
 * [http://jcp.org/aboutJava/communityprocess/final/jsr003/index3.html JMX Spec (JSR-000003)]
 * [http://jcp.org/aboutJava/communityprocess/final/jsr160/index.html JMX Remote API]
 * [http://mx4j.sourceforge.net/ MX4J (open source JMX implementation]
 * [http://java.sun.com/developer/technicalArticles/J2SE/jmx.html JMX: Getting Started]